excessive worry about the future causes
a very undesirable experience called
anxiety this could be short-term anxiety
during the day because of something
you've planned an evening or it could be
long-term anxiety about the future that
is completely uncertain and out of your
control
the Stoics had a trick to end this
anxiety called a more fatty
[Music]
the Latin phrase are not fatty means
loving your fate
there is a tremendous power if you're
able to embrace whatever happens this is
what German philosopher Nietzsche
although he rejected stoicism wrote
about amor fati and I quote my formula
for human greatness is amor fati that
one wants nothing to be different not in
the future not in the past not for all
eternity
not only to endure what is necessary
still less to conceal it all idealism is
falseness in the fate of necessity but
to love it and quote let's imagine there
are two versions of yourself
the anxious you and a stoic you you work
in a company that recently announced
that because of a reorganization a great
number of its employees will be laid off
you heard the news one day after
visiting your doctor who told you that
you might suffer from a chronic illness
also the relationship with your partner
isn't going well at all the obstacles
that have appeared in your life are of
such significance that the chances are
high that your life will drastically
change this change is what worries the
anxious version of yourself the most
especially because the human mind tends
to judge change within a spectrum of two
polar opposites desire and aversion when
life changes into a desirable position
you'll experience great pleasure in most
cases people become infatuated and
reside on a proverbial pink cloud when
they experience a radical life change
like winning the lottery but when life
changes into a position you averse like
losing a loved one or ending up in
prison you'll experience great pain
either way life goes on and no matter
where you end up there will always be
one thing that you have to work with
which is the present moment from the
story I told we could easily say that
your life is changing into a direction
that you averse the anxious you start
worrying and worrying and keeps you up
at night to worry some more will I be
laid off and if so what am I supposed to
do next and what if my chronic illness
hinders me to find another job what if I
can't pay my mortgage and
more what if my partner leaves me well
some of these questions are up to you
and others are not the underlying truth
is that at the end of the day your
future is beyond your control and that's
exactly the problem of the anxious you
it's a control freak control freak
simply cannot handle insecurity
therefore they generate anxiety because
the anxious mind cannot figure out what
the future will bring but keeps trying
anyway the stoic you however has a
different approach the stoic you fully
embraces fate no matter what amor fati
doesn't mean that you sit on your ass
all day and let life passing by it means
that you make the best out of every
moment it means that you work towards
your goals give them your everything but
when the results turn out to be
different than expected fully embrace
and accept your fate if you keep your
job great if you get laid off make the
best out of it who knows what
opportunities will present themselves to
you if you turn out to be healthy great
if you turn out to be chronically ill
make the best out of it I mean wouldn't
be a challenge to make your life worth
living despite the fact you're sick many
people do and they are humanity's
greatest inspirations so your partner
stays by your side great your partner
leaves you well good riddance you're now
able to focus on yourself and experience
things like personal growth deep
introspection and the joy of Solitude
and who knows a more suitable person
might appear in your life along the way
I'm a fatty put you in a position in
which you simply can't go wrong and when
things can go wrong
there's nothing to worry about and when
there's nothing to worry about
you don't let anxiety waste your life's
energy and make you feel miserable
embrace your destiny no matter what and
you'll have nothing to fear that's the
stoic anxiety hack the sun is shining
enjoy life
thank you for watching
[Music]
you